#Localization and Internationalization

Everyone has their own preferred definitions for these terms. We provide some general, high-level descriptions here of how we tend to use these terms on the W3C Internationalization site.

## Localization

Localization refers to the __adaptation__ of a product, application or document content to meet the language, cultural and other requirements of a specific target market (a _locale_).

Localization is sometimes written as _l10n_, where 10 is the number of letters between **l** and **n**.

Often thought of only as a synonym for translation of the user interface and documentation, localization is often a substantially more complex issue. It can entail customization related to:

  1. Numeric, date and time formats
  2. Use of currency
  3. Keyboard usage
  4. Collation and sorting
  5. Symbols, icons and colors
  6. Text and graphics containing references to objects, actions or ideas which, in a given culture, may be subject to misinterpretation or viewed as insensitive.
  7. Varying legal requirements
  8. and many more things.

Localization may even necessitate a comprehensive rethinking of logic, visual design, or presentation if the way of doing business (eg., accounting) or the accepted paradigm for learning (eg., focus on individual vs. group) in a given locale differs substantially from the originating culture.

## Internationalization

Internationalization (some people use other terms such as _globalization_) is the design and development of a product, application or document content that __enables__ easy localization for target audiences that vary in culture, region, or language.

Internationalization is often written _i18n_, where 18 is the number of letters between __i__ and __n__ in the English word.

Internationalization typically entails:

  1. Designing and developing in a way that removes barriers to localization or international deployment. This includes such things as enabling the use of Unicode, or ensuring the proper handling of legacy character encodings where appropriate, taking care over the concatenation of strings, avoiding dependance in code of user-interface string values, etc.
  2. Providing support for features that may not be used until localization occurs. For example, adding markup in your DTD to support bidirectional text, or for identifying language. Or adding to CSS support for vertical text or other non-Latin typographic features.
  3. Enabling code to support local, regional, language, or culturally related preferences. Typically this involves incorporating predefined localization data and features derived from existing libraries or user preferences. Examples include date and time formats, local calendars, number formats and numeral systems, sorting and presentation of lists, handling of personal names and forms of address, etc.
  4. Separating localizable elements from source code or content, such that localized alternatives can be loaded or selected based on the user's international preferences as needed.

Notice that these items do not necessarily include the localization of the content, application, or product into another language; they are design and development practices which allow such a migration to take place easily in the future but which may have significant utility even if no localization ever takes place.

## The value of internationalization

Internationalization significantly affects the ease of the product's localization. Retrofitting a linguistically- and culturally-centered deliverable for a global market is obviously much more difficult and time-consuming than designing a deliverable with the intent of presenting it globally. (Think back to the Y2K effort and trying to "undo" two-character year fields that were built on the assumption of "19xx").

So ideally, internationalization occurs as a fundamental step in the design and development process, rather than as an afterthought that can often involve awkward and expensive re-engineering.

## How does Angular support i18n/l10n?

Angular supports i18n/l10n for [date](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/filter/date), [number](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/filter/number) and [currency](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/filter/currency) filters.

Localizable pluralization is supported via the [`ngPluralize` directive](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/directive/ngPluralize). Additionally, you can use [MessageFormat extensions](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/i18n#messageformat-extensions) to `$interpolate` for localizable pluralization and gender support in all interpolations via the `ngMessageFormat` module.

All localizable Angular components depend on locale-specific rule sets managed by the [`$locale` service](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/ng/service/$locale).

There a few examples that showcase how to use Angular filters with various locale rule sets in the [`i18n/e2e` directory](https://github.com/angular/angular.js/tree/master/i18n/e2e) of the Angular source code.

## What is a locale ID?

A locale is a specific geographical, political, or cultural region. The most commonly used locale ID consists of two parts: language code and country code. For example, `en-US`, `en-AU`, and `zh-CN` are all valid locale IDs that have both language codes and country codes. Because specifying a country code in locale ID is optional, locale IDs such as `en`, `zh`, and `sk` are also valid. See the [ICU](http://userguide.icu-project.org/locale) website for more information about using locale IDs.

## How does we support i18n/l10n?

We support i18n/l10n through the i18n module offered by angular and two extra libray:
  * [Angular Dynamic Locale](http://lgalfaso.github.io/angular-dynamic-locale/)
  * [Angular Translate](https://angular-translate.github.io/)
  
### Angular Dynamic Locale

Angular Dynamic Locale offers a way to change the locale at runtime. It changes the underlying `$locale` object, so changing the locale will change the formatting of all elements that use `$locale`.

The desired locale can be set by using the service `tmhDynamicLocale`, that provides the method `set(newLocale)`. 

e.g.
```typescript
tmhDynamicLocale.set('it');
```

The locale set is asynchronous, so the service returns a promise and an event is raised when the locale setting is completed.

For example we can apply translation based on locale change in this way:
  1. In a tun block attach the `$translate` service to the root scope, so it can be used into events listener

```typescript
.run(['$rootScope', '$translate',
  ($rootScope: angular.IRootScopeService, $translate: angular.translate.ITranslateService)  => {
    $rootScope['$translate'] = $translate;
  }]).name;
```

  2. Now you can catch the `$localeChangeSuccessv event and instruct the translate service about the locale choosen

```typescript
this.$rootScope.$on('$localeChangeSuccess', (event: angular.IAngularEvent, locale: string, $locale: angular.ILocaleService) => {
  event.currentScope['$translate'].use(locale);
});
```
This module expects for the angular locales to be present at angular/i18n/angular-locale_{{locale}}.js. If the locales are at another URL, this can be changed at tmhDynamicLocaleProvider using localeLocationPattern(string).

e.g.
```typescript
angular.module('myApp', ['tmh.dynamicLocale'])
  .config(function(tmhDynamicLocaleProvider) {
      tmhDynamicLocaleProvider.localeLocationPattern('lib/angular-locale_{{locale}}.js');
  });
```

Note that these configurations have to be done once in whole project.

### angular-translate

angular-translate offers an easy way to bring i18n and l10n to your Angular apps!

angular-translate comes with plenty useful features and extensions and gives you ultra high flexibility when it comes to customization. These are just a few of the great features:

#### Features

  * Components (filters/directives) to translate your contents
  * Asynchronous loading of i18n data
  * Pluralization support using MessageFormat.js
  * Expandability through easy to use interfaces

This module can be configured as follow (configuration has to done be once in whole project)
```typescript
$translateProvider
.addInterpolation('$translateMessageFormatInterpolation')
.useStaticFilesLoader({
  prefix: 'i18n/locale-',
  suffix: '.json'
})
  .useSanitizeValueStrategy('sanitize')
  .registerAvailableLanguageKeys(['en', 'it'], {
    'en-*': 'en',
    'it-*': 'it'
  })
  .useMissingTranslationHandlerLog()
  .useLocalStorage()
  .fallbackLanguage('en')
  .preferredLanguage('en');
```
 Both `serve` and `build` gulp tasks are configured to search for files named as `localeID.json` (e.g. it.json) in the whole project and merge them in one file.
 
 Each component must have its transations in a subfolder, below is shown the directory tree structure:
```bash
 app
 |-- components
     |-- example
         |-- i18n
             |-- en.json # the localized messages for example component int en
             |-- it.json # the localized messages for example component int it
         |-- example.module.spec.ts
         |-- example.provider.spec.ts
         |-- example.service.spec.ts
         |-- ...
```
 The json files, contains localized messages as below:
 ```json
{
  "SITE_VISITORS": "Site visitors",
  "WARNINGS": "Warnings",
  "MEMORY_LOAD": "Memory load"
}
```
These localization can be used as below:

```html
<div layout-gt-md="row">
  <tsng-panel-widget flex title="{{ 'SITE_VISITORS' | translate }}"></tsng-panel-widget>
  <tsng-panel-widget flex title="{{ 'WARNINGS' | translate }}"></tsng-panel-widget>
  <tsng-panel-widget flex title="{{ ::'MEMORY_LOAD' | translate }}"></tsng-panel-widget>
</div>
```

As you can notice, you can use the angular one-way binding notation `::`. When it is used, angualr will not attach a watch to the expression, so if the locale is changed, the message will not change until the page is refreshed.

## References
  1. [https://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-i18n](https://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-i18n)
  2. [https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/i18n](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/i18n)
  3. [http://lgalfaso.github.io/angular-dynamic-locale/](hhttp://lgalfaso.github.io/angular-dynamic-locale/)
  4. [https://angular-translate.github.io/](https://angular-translate.github.io/)
